---
layout:     post
title:      Thoughts after infoshare
date:       2017-05-19 19:00:00 +0000
summary:    I don't waste my time, even if I don't really write much. Here are my thoughts after infoShare2017
tags:       dsp2017 conferences
---

## Hello there, fellow reader. 

Recently I don't write a lot, I know. Don't look at me with this judgemental look. Enough of self-judgement, let's go to the merits. 
InfoShare 2017 was great event that took place at AMBEREXPO Exhibition and Convention Centre in the Gdańsk on 17th, 18th and 19th of May. With over 65 sponsors that had some sort of booths with cool gadgets and over 15 hours of talks I could not be bored. 

Sadly I couldn't get to before and closing party since I spent thuesday and friday noon (that's the time I write this artic;le) and evening on the travel but I had lot of fun, learnt a lot of new things, was inspired to try few new ideas and meet some really great people. 

Traditionally I'll talk about talks that were most interesting to me. I've spent first day almost exclusively on tech stage talks starting with... 

### Why fast matters - Harry Roberts 

Harry is creator of [csswizardry.com](csswizardry.com) and person who profesionally takes care of optimizing websites. His site that while not being the most simple focuses on speed bringing new clients since people are less likely to get bored and exit your site. After introduction covering data from big sites like Netflix he talked how slow site can make lives around the globe harder. Slow site is bad not only for rural areas or mobile users who are in low availibility localization but also most of people living in developing world, in countries like India, China, Pakistan or even Brazil! 

Most valuable thing from this presentation is warning of adding overhead with ad scripts and recomendation of SpeedCurve tool that I have yet to test. SpeedCurve is a tool that helps you get data about your site speed - it allows to measure and save timings from all around the world. 

Writing this on the train, when I wanted to go back to slides or read Harrys twitter I start to prioretitize performance more. 

[Link to the slides from presentation](https://speakerdeck.com/csswizardry/why-fast-matters)

### The Art of Debugging - Remy Sharp

Art of debugging potentially enhanced way I work with Chrome dev tools. Remys talk included some cool live egzamples where he was debugging some React application. He was using some of not widely known devtools functionality like `$_` or `copy()` which... copies whatever you give to it as text data. It automatically parses objects into nicely formated JSON. It's neat. 

Sadly Remy didn't provide slides from his presentation so I can't show it to you right now. 

### Evaluating frameworks - Tim Kadlec  

Security is really important. And sometimes even the best, most secure code can be full of vulnerabilities. Tim described how OWASP ranks sources of possible hacks or data thefts and how their rank is flawed since most of exploited vulnerabilities are inside outdated or abandoned dependencies. He profesionally works on product that fights with this - it scans dependencies and finds those that contain known security holes. I find this concept and current implementation very useful, dependencies in any project are hard to keep an eye on. 

### Desktop Apps with JavaScript - Felix Rieseberg

This talk got me really inspired to try some new things out! Felix live coded very simple text editor that used base of Visual Studio Code - monaco text editor. It took him something like 15 minutes to code text editor that interacted with operating system and allowed him to drag and drop files inside his program to fill it with those files content. 

### HTTP2 saving performance - Piotr Stapp 

Oryginally "HTTP2 na ratunek wydajności" was the first talk in Polish I attended to. Piotr talked about the most common things that make web slow and why HTTP1/1.1 is getting slower and slower as we build web apps bigger and make it do more things. From [14 rules for faster-loading web sites](http://stevesouders.com/hpws/rules.php) he's been covering almost all of the points to show how simple it is to make connection and data transfer a little faster by, for example, making sure to set expires header. The less resources is downloaded the better times will be. 

### Context All The Things - Stephen Rivas Jr

Building bigger React application can get really annoying if you don't use any state manager and all your components along tree path get props they don't use and just pass down. Talk by Stephen was really cool and showed this problem as it grows alongside application as well as solution for this - context. After 15 minutes of promissing use for context he comes with conclusion from his experiences. 

You don't context all the things. It doesn't really work that well without any layer of abstraction because context API is not 100% stable, some React update could potentially give you a lot of work with fixing old API uses. Also context API should not be used to pass down non-pure functions. 

The talk was overall very fun and well made. Stephen gave me some useful information about their experiences with contexts and passing data down in Netflix. It will be useful for almost all of things I develop. 

### Distributed systems, beuty and beast - Michał Łukaszewski

In original "Systemy rozproszone, piękna i bestia" was a beautiful story about broken 